tutorials/task_workflows/quality_control/chapter.md, before:

# Creating Consensus, Honeypot, and Qualification Tasks

Consensus tasks in Dataloop are a critical feature for ensuring annotation quality.
They enable validation, skill assessment, and collaborative annotations by involving multiple annotators in various task types: **Honeypot**,
**Qualification**, and **Consensus**. Each type serves distinct purposes and methodologies, as outlined below.

## Comparison of Consensus Task Types

| Task Type         | Purpose                               | Data Inclusion             | Evaluation Method        |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------|
| **Honeypot**      | Continuous quality monitoring         | Mixed raw and ground truth | Score on honeypot items  |
| **Qualification** | Pre-task skill assessment             | Ground truth only          | Compare with known truth |
| **Consensus**     | High-quality collaborative annotation | Raw data only              | Majority vote/custom     |

These task types allow for flexible, scalable annotation workflows tailored to project needs, ensuring data quality and
annotator performance.

## Standard Consensus Tasks

Read more about Consensus Tasks [here](https://docs.dataloop.ai/docs/consensus).

Standard consensus tasks involve multiple annotators working on the same items, enabling comparison and consolidation of
annotations based on majority votes or custom rules.
In the following example, we will duplicate 60% of the data to be annotated by all 3 assignees, the rest 40% will be
divided according to the distribution between the assignees:

### Example:

```python
task = dataset.tasks.create(
    task_name='Consensus Task',
    due_date=datetime.datetime(day=1, month=1, year=2029).timestamp(),
    assignee_ids=['annotator1@dataloop.ai', 'annotator2@dataloop.ai', 'annotator3@dataloop.ai'],
    consensus_task_type=dl.entities.ConsensusTaskType.CONSENSUS,
    consensus_percentage=60,  # 50% of items will have consensus
    consensus_assignees=3  # Each consensus item is assigned to 3 annotators
)
```

## Honeypot Tasks

Read more about Honeypot Tasks [here](https://docs.dataloop.ai/docs/qualification-honeypot#honeypot).

Honeypot tasks are designed for continuous monitoring of annotators' performance during their regular work by planting
items with known ground truth among raw data.
These tasks help assess annotators' accuracy and ensure ongoing quality control.
**NOTE** There must be a `/honeypot` folder in the root of the dataset with the annotated items (that will be randomly cloned to
the different assignments).

### Example:

```python
task = dataset.tasks.create(
    task_name='Honeypot Task',
    due_date=datetime.datetime(day=1, month=1, year=2029).timestamp(),
    assignee_ids=['annotator1@dataloop.ai', 'annotator2@dataloop.ai'],
    consensus_task_type=dl.entities.ConsensusTaskType.HONEYPOT,
    consensus_percentage=5,  # 5% of items are honeypot
)
```

## Qualification Tasks

Read more about Qualification Tasks [here](https://docs.dataloop.ai/docs/qualification-honeypot#qualification).

Qualification tasks evaluate annotators' skills before assigning them to production tasks.
These tasks simulate a test environment where annotators work on items with hidden ground truth.
Qualification tasks create an assignment **over entire selected data for each of the assignees**.
By having ground-truth annotations, a score is calculated and provided for each of the assignees.

### Example:

```python
task = dataset.tasks.create(
    task_name='Qualification Task',
    due_date=datetime.datetime(day=1, month=1, year=2029).timestamp(),
    assignee_ids=['annotator1@dataloop.ai', 'annotator2@dataloop.ai'],
    consensus_task_type=dl.entities.ConsensusTaskType.QUALIFICATION
)
```

## Retrieving Task Scores

After a consensus task is completed, you can retrieve and analyze the scores using the provided scoring functions:

### Calculate Task Scores

```python
# Import the scoring functions
from dtlpymetrics.dtlpy_scores import Score, ScoreType
from dtlpymetrics.scoring import calc_task_score

# Calculate scores for all items in a task
task = calc_task_score(
    task=task,
    score_types=[ScoreType.ANNOTATION_IOU] # By default, uses all available score types
)

# Calculate scores for a specific item
item_scores = calc_task_item_score(
    item=item,
    task=task,
    score_types=[ScoreType.ANNOTATION_IOU, ScoreType.ANNOTATION_LABEL],
    upload=True  # Set to False to not upload scores to platform
)
```

### Available Score Types
The system supports several score types:
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_IOU` - Intersection over Union for annotations
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_LABEL` - Label matching scores
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_ATTRIBUTE` - Attribute matching scores
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_OVERALL` - Overall annotation score
- `ScoreType.ITEM_OVERALL` - Overall item score
- `ScoreType.USER_CONFUSION` - User confusion matrix
- `ScoreType.LABEL_CONFUSION` - Label confusion matrix

### Accessing Scores
Scores are uploaded to the platform by default. If you want to save them locally instead:

```python
# Set environment variable to the folder to save scores locally
import os
os.environ['SCORES_DEBUG_PATH'] = '/path/to/save/scores'

# Calculate scores without uploading
item_scores = calc_task_item_score(
    item=item,
    task=task,
    upload=False
)
```

The scores will be saved as JSON files in the specified directory, organized by task ID and item ID.

Commit message:

docs: show default score_types parameter usage in task scoring examples

tutorials/task_workflows/quality_control/chapter.md, after:

# Creating Consensus, Honeypot, and Qualification Tasks

Consensus tasks in Dataloop are a critical feature for ensuring annotation quality.
They enable validation, skill assessment, and collaborative annotations by involving multiple annotators in various task types: **Honeypot**,
**Qualification**, and **Consensus**. Each type serves distinct purposes and methodologies, as outlined below.

## Comparison of Consensus Task Types

| Task Type         | Purpose                               | Data Inclusion             | Evaluation Method        |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------|
| **Honeypot**      | Continuous quality monitoring         | Mixed raw and ground truth | Score on honeypot items  |
| **Qualification** | Pre-task skill assessment             | Ground truth only          | Compare with known truth |
| **Consensus**     | High-quality collaborative annotation | Raw data only              | Majority vote/custom     |

These task types allow for flexible, scalable annotation workflows tailored to project needs, ensuring data quality and
annotator performance.

## Standard Consensus Tasks

Read more about Consensus Tasks [here](https://docs.dataloop.ai/docs/consensus).

Standard consensus tasks involve multiple annotators working on the same items, enabling comparison and consolidation of
annotations based on majority votes or custom rules.
In the following example, we will duplicate 60% of the data to be annotated by all 3 assignees, the rest 40% will be
divided according to the distribution between the assignees:

### Example:

```python
task = dataset.tasks.create(
    task_name='Consensus Task',
    due_date=datetime.datetime(day=1, month=1, year=2029).timestamp(),
    assignee_ids=['annotator1@dataloop.ai', 'annotator2@dataloop.ai', 'annotator3@dataloop.ai'],
    consensus_task_type=dl.entities.ConsensusTaskType.CONSENSUS,
    consensus_percentage=60,  # 50% of items will have consensus
    consensus_assignees=3  # Each consensus item is assigned to 3 annotators
)
```

## Honeypot Tasks

Read more about Honeypot Tasks [here](https://docs.dataloop.ai/docs/qualification-honeypot#honeypot).

Honeypot tasks are designed for continuous monitoring of annotators' performance during their regular work by planting
items with known ground truth among raw data.
These tasks help assess annotators' accuracy and ensure ongoing quality control.
**NOTE** There must be a `/honeypot` folder in the root of the dataset with the annotated items (that will be randomly cloned to
the different assignments).

### Example:

```python
task = dataset.tasks.create(
    task_name='Honeypot Task',
    due_date=datetime.datetime(day=1, month=1, year=2029).timestamp(),
    assignee_ids=['annotator1@dataloop.ai', 'annotator2@dataloop.ai'],
    consensus_task_type=dl.entities.ConsensusTaskType.HONEYPOT,
    consensus_percentage=5,  # 5% of items are honeypot
)
```

## Qualification Tasks

Read more about Qualification Tasks [here](https://docs.dataloop.ai/docs/qualification-honeypot#qualification).

Qualification tasks evaluate annotators' skills before assigning them to production tasks.
These tasks simulate a test environment where annotators work on items with hidden ground truth.
Qualification tasks create an assignment **over entire selected data for each of the assignees**.
By having ground-truth annotations, a score is calculated and provided for each of the assignees.

### Example:

```python
task = dataset.tasks.create(
    task_name='Qualification Task',
    due_date=datetime.datetime(day=1, month=1, year=2029).timestamp(),
    assignee_ids=['annotator1@dataloop.ai', 'annotator2@dataloop.ai'],
    consensus_task_type=dl.entities.ConsensusTaskType.QUALIFICATION
)
```

## Retrieving Task Scores

After a consensus task is completed, you can retrieve and analyze the scores using the provided scoring functions:

### Calculate Task Scores

```python
# Import the scoring functions
from dtlpymetrics.dtlpy_scores import Score, ScoreType
from dtlpymetrics.scoring import calc_task_score

# Calculate scores for all items in a task
task = calc_task_score(
    task=task,
    score_types=[ScoreType.ANNOTATION_IOU, ScoreType.ANNOTATION_LABEL],
)


# Calculate scores for a specific item
item_scores = calc_task_item_score(
    item=item,
    task=task,
    # By omitting the score_types parameter, it defaults to scoring all available score types
    upload=True  # Set to False to not upload scores to platform
)
```

### Available Score Types
The system supports several score types:
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_IOU` - Intersection over Union for annotations
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_LABEL` - Label matching scores
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_ATTRIBUTE` - Attribute matching scores
- `ScoreType.ANNOTATION_OVERALL` - Overall annotation score
- `ScoreType.ITEM_OVERALL` - Overall item score
- `ScoreType.USER_CONFUSION` - User confusion matrix
- `ScoreType.LABEL_CONFUSION` - Label confusion matrix

### Accessing Scores
Scores are uploaded to the platform by default. If you want to save them locally instead:

```python
# Set environment variable to the folder to save scores locally
import os
os.environ['SCORES_DEBUG_PATH'] = '/path/to/save/scores'

# Calculate scores without uploading
item_scores = calc_task_item_score(
    item=item,
    task=task,
    upload=False
)
```

The scores will be saved as JSON files in the specified directory, organized by task ID and item ID.
