tutorials/model_management/use_public_models/chapter.md, before:

## Tutorial: Using models from the AI library to predict on items  
  
Model algorithms ready to use out-of-the-box are available in the Dataloop AI Library. The AI library contains various algorithms and pretrained models that can be used for inferencing or fine-tuning via additional training on your custom datasets.  
  
### Using pretrained models from the AI library  
  
To see available public models, filter all available packages:  
  

```python
import dtlpy as dl
import os
project = dl.projects.get(project_name='<project_id>')
package = project.packages.push(package_name='dummy-model-package',
                                codebase=dl.entities.LocalCodebase(os.getcwd()),
                                modules=[])
model = package.models.create(model_name='My Model',
                              description='model for offline model logging',
                              dataset_id='<dataset_id>',
                              labels=[])
```
Public models can be downloaded to your machine for local training and inference, or they can be trained and deployed on the cloud for integration into the Dataloop platform.  
  
At this point, you can do one of the following:  
1. Download a model for local training and/or inferencing  
2. Implement a model on the platform  
  
Deploying on the platform also allows you to inference on data items, as well as integrate the model into FaaS or pipelines.  
  
## Download a public model for local training and/or inferencing  
    1. download codebase  
    2. build adapter  
    3. load adapter  
    4. run predict  
  
  

```python
epoch = np.linspace(0, 9, 10)
epoch_metric = np.linspace(0, 9, 10)
for x_metric, y_metric in zip(epoch, epoch_metric):
    model.add_log_samples(samples=dl.LogSample(figure='tutorial plot',
                                               legend='some metric',
                                               x=x_metric,
                                               y=y_metric),
                          dataset_id=model.dataset_id)
```
  
  

```python
filters = dl.Filters(resource=dl.FiltersResource.PACKAGE, use_defaults=False)
filters.add(field='scope', values='public')
dl.packages.list(filters=filters).print()
```
Public models can be downloaded to your machine for local training and inference, or they can be trained and deployed on the cloud for integration into the Dataloop platform.  
  
### Dataset Subsets  
Our public models use a train/validation split of the dataset for the training session. To avoid data leakage between training sessions and to make each training reproducible,  
we will determine the data subsets and save the split type to the dataset entity (using a DQL). Using DQL filters you can subset the data however you like.  
  
For example, if your dataset is split between folders, you can use this DQL to add metadata for all items in the dataset  

```python
dataset.metadata['system']['subsets'] = {
    'train': json.dumps(dl.Filters(field='dir', values='/train').prepare()),
    'validation': json.dumps(dl.Filters(field='dir', values='/validation').prepare()),
}
dataset.update(system_metadata=True)
```
This way, when the training starts, the sets will be downloaded using the DQL and any future training session on this dataset will have the same subsets of data.  
  
NOTE: In the future, this mechanism will be expanded to use a tagging system on items. This will allow more flexible data subsets and random data allocation.  
  
### Deploying a model remotely  
  
Download the model and package you want to copy it to your project. Since the public model is pretrained, it can be deployed without any further action.  
  

```python
public_model = dl.models.get(model_id="<model_id>")
model = project.models.clone(from_model=public_model,
                             model_name='remote_model',
                             project_id=project.id)
model.deploy()
```
If you want to customize the public model (for transfer-learning or fine-tuning), you can indicate the new dataset and labels for model training.  
  

```python
custom_model = dl.models.clone(from_model=public_model,
                               model_name='remote_custom_model',
                               dataset=dataset,
                               project_id=project.id,
                               labels=['label1', 'label2'])
model.train()
model.deploy()
```
A model can be trained with a new dataset with `model.train()`.  
  
A model can only be deployed after it's been trained. `model.deploy()` automatically creates a bot and service for the trained model.  
  
Now the model is deployed, you can create a UI slot to inference on individual data items on the platform, or call the model to inference in a FaaS.  
  
### Downloading a model for local training and inferencing  
  
For local training and inferecing, you need to download the package codebase to get build the model adapter that you need to run the train and predict methods. Follow the same steps as above to copy the public model to your project. Then download the model's package codebase to build and load the model adapter.

Commit message:

update create new model and model metrics

tutorials/model_management/use_public_models/chapter.md, after:

## Tutorial: Using models from the AI library to predict  
  
Model algorithms that are ready for use out-of-the-box are available in the Dataloop AI Library. The AI library contains various algorithms and pretrained models that can be used for inferencing or fine-tuning via additional training on your custom datasets.  
  
  
  
### Using pretrained models from the AI library  
  
To see available public models, filter all available packages:  
  

```python
import dtlpy as dl
import os
project = dl.projects.get(project_name='<project_id>')
package = project.packages.push(package_name='dummy-model-package',
                                codebase=dl.entities.LocalCodebase(os.getcwd()),
                                modules=[])
model = package.models.create(model_name='My Model',
                              description='model for offline model logging',
                              dataset_id='<dataset_id>',
                              labels=[])
```
Public models can be downloaded to your machine for local training and inference, or they can be trained and deployed on the cloud for integration into the Dataloop platform.  
  
Deploying on the platform also allows you to inference on data items, as well as integrate the model into FaaS or pipelines.  
  
### Implement a public model on the platform  
  
#### Clone and deploy a public model  
Download the model and package you want to copy it to your project.  
  
Only models that are trained (i.e. `model.status = ‘trained’) can be deployed. Since the public model is pre-trained, it can be deployed directly.  
  

```python
epoch = np.linspace(0, 9, 10)
epoch_metric = np.linspace(0, 9, 10)
for x_metric, y_metric in zip(epoch, epoch_metric):
    model.add_log_samples(samples=dl.LogSample(figure='tutorial plot',
                                               legend='some metric',
                                               x=x_metric,
                                               y=y_metric),
                          dataset_id=model.dataset_id)
```
If you want to customize the public model (for transfer-learning or fine-tuning), you can indicate the new dataset and labels you want to use for model training.  
  

```python
filters = dl.Filters(resource=dl.FiltersResource.PACKAGE, use_defaults=False)
filters.add(field='scope', values='public')
dl.packages.list(filters=filters).print()
```
Public models can be downloaded to your machine for local training and inference, or they can be trained and deployed on the cloud for integration into the Dataloop platform.  
  
### Dataset Subsets  
Our public models use a train/validation split of the dataset for the training session. To avoid data leakage between training sessions and to make each training reproducible,  
we will determine the data subsets and save the split type to the dataset entity (using a DQL). Using DQL filters you can subset the data however you like.  
  
For example, if your dataset is split between folders, you can use this DQL to add metadata for all items in the dataset  

```python
public_model = dl.models.get(model_id="<model_id>")
model = project.models.clone(from_model=public_model,
                             model_name='remote_model',
                             project_id=project.id)
model.deploy()
```
This way, when the training starts, the sets will be downloaded using the DQL and any future training session on this dataset will have the same subsets of data.  
  
NOTE: In the future, this mechanism will be expanded to use a tagging system on items. This will allow more flexible data subsets and random data allocation.  
  
### Deploying a model remotely  
  
Download the model and package you want to copy it to your project. Since the public model is pretrained, it can be deployed without any further action.  
  

```python
custom_model = dl.models.clone(from_model=public_model,
                               model_name='remote_custom_model',
                               dataset=dataset,
                               project_id=project.id,
                               labels=['label1', 'label2'])
custom_model.train()
custom_model.deploy()
```
If you want to customize the public model (for transfer-learning or fine-tuning), you can indicate the new dataset and labels for model training.  
  

```python
item = dl.items.get(item_id='631ef21d240440c5455788b7')
annotations = adapter.predict_items([item], with_upload=True)
image = np.asarray(Image.open(item.download()))
plt.imshow(item.annotations.show(image,
                                 thickness=5))
print('Prediction: {}'.format(annotations[0][0].label))
```
A model can be trained with a new dataset with `model.train()`.  
  
A model can only be deployed after it's been trained. `model.deploy()` automatically creates a bot and service for the trained model.  
  
Now the model is deployed, you can create a UI slot to inference on individual data items on the platform, or call the model to inference in a FaaS.  
  
### Downloading a model for local training and inferencing  
  
For local training and inferecing, you need to download the package codebase to get build the model adapter that you need to run the train and predict methods. Follow the same steps as above to copy the public model to your project. Then download the model's package codebase to build and load the model adapter.
