REST API/3.RestApi-Features.md, before:



# Testing the API locally
So far you have worked with the [online version of Dataloop's API](https://gate.dataloop.ai/api/v1/docs#/). If you wish to test the API locally on your machine, do the following:

[Go to Dataloop's CLI](https://dataloop.ai/docs/dataloop-cli), if you want to better understand instructions below, and learm more about Dataloop's Command Line Interface. Then, you can open the shell/console prompt and login through the browser:

```
dlp login
```
A browser should open up after executing the ```dlp login``` command. Once you are logged in, you may obtain your JWT Token through the CLI command below:

```
dlp api info
```
The Output for that should be as seen below:
```
copyC:\Users\user>dlp api info
2020-01-06 17:03:07.821841
-- Dataloop info --
environment: https://gate.dataloop.ai/api/v1
user_email: user@dataloop.ai
token: ***your token will be here***
See "dlp --help" for options
```
You should see a long token after executing the command, which you will need to copy and add it as an Authorization header with Bearer prefix, using curl for fetching your projects. It should look like this:
```
curl -X GET \
  https://gate.dataloop.ai/api/v1/projects \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer ***your token***'
  ```

Commit message:

3 - Reviewed and is missing some steps
See bold at the beginning.  Can't assume people will have dtlpy install for instance.  Start from the beginning of the journey please.

REST API/3.RestApi-Features.md, after:



# Testing the API locally
So far you have worked with the [online version of Dataloop's API](https://gate.dataloop.ai/api/v1/docs#/). If you wish to test the API locally on your machine, do the following:

**Need to add in here that dtlpy needs to be installed then the CLI will work.  Did you test this?**

[Go to Dataloop's CLI](https://dataloop.ai/docs/dataloop-cli), if you want to better understand instructions below, and learm more about Dataloop's Command Line Interface. Then, you can open the shell/console prompt and login through the browser:

```
dlp login
```
A browser should open up after executing the ```dlp login``` command. Once you are logged in, you may obtain your JWT Token through the CLI command below:

```
dlp api info
```
The Output for that should be as seen below:
```
copyC:\Users\user>dlp api info
2020-01-06 17:03:07.821841
-- Dataloop info --
environment: https://gate.dataloop.ai/api/v1
user_email: user@dataloop.ai
token: ***your token will be here***
See "dlp --help" for options
```
You should see a long token after executing the command, which you will need to copy and add it as an Authorization header with Bearer prefix, using curl for fetching your projects. It should look like this:
```
curl -X GET \
  https://gate.dataloop.ai/api/v1/projects \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer ***your token***'
  ```
