tutorials/model_management/new_model_torchvision_example/chapter.md, before:

# Creating a Model Adapter for TorchVision's Faster R-CNN in Dataloop  
  
## Introduction  
  
In this tutorial, we'll walk you through the process of creating a model adapter for TorchVision's Faster R-CNN to make it compatible with the Dataloop platform.  
A model adapter allows you to integrate pre-trained models into the Dataloop ecosystem, making it easier to deploy and manage your AI models.  
This tutorial is based on torchvision example [here](https://pytorch.org/vision/stable/models.html#object-detection).  
  
## Prerequisites  
  
Before you begin, make sure you have the following prerequisites in place:  
  
* Dataloop Account: You need an active Dataloop account to use the platform.  
* Python: Install Python on your local machine.  
* Dataloop SDK: Install the Dataloop SDK, which allows you to interact with Dataloop's API.  
* TorchVision: Make sure you have TorchVision installed for working with Faster R-CNN models.  
  
```shell  
pip install torchvision  
```  
  
If you have any issues, click to get more information about [Dataloop python env](https://developers.dataloop.ai/tutorials/getting_started/sdk_overview/chapter/#installing-prerequisite-software) and about [torch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/).  
  
## Running Locally  
  
To start, you can run your Faster R-CNN model locally to ensure it's functioning as expected:  
  
* Set Up Dependencies: Install the required dependencies and libraries.  
* create `main.py` file and copy the following code (make sure to replace the image path to a local one, you  
  download [this file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dataloop-ai/dtlpy-documentation/142cea1f9e913b810d5f5425c8404cc105eb0e8b/assets/images/hamster.jpg)):  

```python
from torchvision.io.image import read_image
from torchvision.models.detection import fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2, FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights
from torchvision.utils import draw_bounding_boxes
from torchvision.transforms.functional import to_pil_image
img = read_image("/user/tst/image.jpg")
# Step 1: Initialize model with the best available weights
weights = FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights.DEFAULT
model = fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2(weights=weights, box_score_thresh=0.9)
model.eval()
# Step 2: Initialize the inference transforms
preprocess = weights.transforms()
# Step 3: Apply inference preprocessing transforms
batch = [preprocess(img)]
# Step 4: Use the model and visualize the prediction
prediction = model(batch)[0]
labels = [weights.meta["categories"][i] for i in prediction["labels"]]
box = draw_bounding_boxes(img, boxes=prediction["boxes"],
                          labels=labels,
                          colors="red",
                          width=4, font_size=30)
im = to_pil_image(box.detach())
im.show()
```
  
* Run the file. You should see the annotated image with the BB output of the model.  
  
## Creating the Adapter  
  
Now we will split it to our model adapter functions.  
we will implement `load` adn `predict` and create the following adapter in `adapter.py`:  

```python
from torchvision.io.image import read_image
from torchvision.models.detection import fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2, FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights
import dtlpy as dl
class FasterRCNNAdapter(dl.BaseModelAdapter):
    def load(self, local_path, **kwargs):
        # Step 1: Initialize model with the best available weights
        weights = FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights.DEFAULT
        self.model = fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2(weights=weights, box_score_thresh=0.9)
        self.model.eval()
        # Step 2: Initialize the inference transforms
        self.preprocess = weights.transforms()
    def prepare_item_func(self, item: dl.Item):
        # Step 3: Apply inference preprocessing transforms
        img = read_image(item.download())
        return self.preprocess(img)
    def predict(self, batch, **kwargs):
        # Step 4: Use the model and visualize the prediction
        predictions = self.model(batch)
        batch_annotations = list()
        for pred in predictions:
            collection = dl.AnnotationCollection()
            for box, label, score in zip(pred["boxes"], pred["labels"], pred["scores"]):
                collection.add(annotation_definition=dl.Box(left=box[0],
                                                            top=box[1],
                                                            right=box[2],
                                                            bottom=box[3],
                                                            label=self.model_entity.id_to_label_map[label]),
                               model_info={'name': self.model_entity.name,
                                           'model_id': self.model_entity.id,
                                           'confidence': score})
            batch_annotations.append(collection)
        return batch_annotations
```
  
## Pushing to Dataloop  
  
To integrate your model adapter into Dataloop:  
  
1. Login to Dataloop: Use the sdk to log in to the platform - `dl.login()`.  
2. Initialize Adapter Project: Create a new project or use an existing one -- we will call it 'Test Project' here.  
3. Create the `dataloop.json` manifest that specifies the app that will run the module. More information on apps and their manifests can be found [here](https://developers.dataloop.ai/tutorials/applications/introduction/chapter/). Here follows an example of manifest used for FasterRCNN:  
  
```json  
{  
  "name": "fasterrcnn",  
  "displayName": "FasterRCNN",  
  "version": "0.1.13",  
  "scope": "public",  
  "description": "FasterRCNN application for object detection",  
  "attributes": {  
    "Provider": "PyTorch",  
    "License": "BSD-3.0",  
    "Category": "Model",  
    "Computer Vision": "Semantic Segmentation",  
    "Media Type": "Image"  
  },  
  "codebase": {  
    "type": "git",  
    "gitUrl": "https://github.com/dataloop-ai-apps/fasterrcnn-adapter",  
    "gitTag": "0.1.13"  
  },  
  "components": {  
    "computeConfigs": [  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn-deploy",  
        "versions": {  
          "dtlpy": "1.89.11"  
        },  
        "runtime": {  
          "podType": "regular-xs",  
          "concurrency": 1,  
          "autoscaler": {  
            "type": "rabbitmq",  
            "minReplicas": 0,  
            "maxReplicas": 2,  
            "queueLength": 100  
          },  
          "preemptible": false  
        }  
      },  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn-train-evaluate",  
        "versions": {  
          "dtlpy": "1.89.11"  
        },  
        "runtime": {  
          "podType": "gpu-t4",  
          "concurrency": 1,  
          "autoscaler": {  
            "type": "rabbitmq",  
            "minReplicas": 0,  
            "maxReplicas": 2,  
            "queueLength": 100  
          },  
          "preemptible": false,  
          "executionTimeout": 36000000  
        }  
      }  
    ],  
    "modules": [  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn-module",  
        "entryPoint": "model_adapter.py",  
        "className": "FasterRCNNAdapter",  
        "computeConfig": "fasterrcnn-deploy",  
        "description": "FasterRCNN Segmentation Module",  
        "initInputs": [  
          {  
            "type": "Model",  
            "name": "model_entity"  
          }  
        ],  
        "functions": [  
          {  
            "name": "evaluate_model",  
            "computeConfig": "fasterrcnn-train-evaluate",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              },  
              {  
                "type": "Dataset",  
                "name": "dataset",  
                "description": "Dataloop Dataset Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              },  
              {  
                "type": "Dataset",  
                "name": "dataset",  
                "description": "Dataloop Dataset Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "displayName": "Evaluate a Model",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to evaluate FasterRCNN Segmentation model performance"  
          },  
          {  
            "name": "predict_items",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Item[]",  
                "name": "items",  
                "description": "List of items to run inference on"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [  
               {  
                 "type": "Item[]",  
                 "name": "items",  
                 "description": "The same input images for prediction."  
               },  
               {  
                 "type": "Annotation[]",  
                 "name": "annotations",  
                 "description": "The predicted annotations."  
               }  
            ],  
            "displayName": "Predict Items",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to run FasterRCNN Segmentation inference on items"  
          },  
          {  
            "name": "predict_dataset",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Dataset",  
                "name": "dataset",  
                "description": ""  
              },  
              {  
                "type": "Json",  
                "name": "filters",  
                "description": "Dataloop Filter DQL"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [],  
            "displayName": "Predict Dataset",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to run FasterRCNN inference on a dataset"  
          },  
          {  
            "name": "train_model",  
            "computeConfig": "fasterrcnn-train-evaluate",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "displayName": "Train a Model",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to train FasterRCNN Segmentation model"  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ],  
    "models": [  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn",  
        "moduleName": "fasterrcnn-module",  
        "scope": "project",  
        "status": "pre-trained",  
        "configuration": {  
          "weights_filename": "weights/best.pth",  
          "batch_size": 12,  
          "num_epochs": 25,  
          "id_to_label_map": {  
                "0": "person",  
                "1": "..."  
            }  
        },  
        "inputType": "image",  
        "outputType": "box",  
        "supportedMethods": {  
          "load": true,  
          "predict": true,  
          "train": true,  
          "evaluate": true  
        },  
        "description": "State-of-the-art object detection networks depend on region proposal algorithms to hypothesize object locations. ",  
        "labels": [  
          "person",  
          "..."  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  }  
}  
```  
the labels have been cut short to save space, but the full manifest includes 80 labels.  
  
4. Use the command line tool to install the app, running it from the model project directory:  
  
```bash  
dlp app publish --project-name "Test Project"  
```  
  
  
## Deploy the model  
  
Finally, deploy and run your adapted Faster R-CNN model on the Dataloop platform:  
  

```python
project = dl.projects.get("Test Project")
model = project.models.get("fasterrcnn")  # From the manifest's models.name
model.deploy()
```
Inference on Dataloop: Use the Dataloop platform to perform inference on your Faster R-CNN model and monitor its performance.  

```python
ex = model.predict(item_ids=['...'])
```
  
## Conclusion  
  
With this tutorial, you'll be able to create a model adapter for TorchVision's Faster R-CNN and seamlessly integrate it into the Dataloop platform. Note that specific code implementation details are not included in this outline, but you can provide code snippets or refer to official documentation as needed.

Commit message:

Updating to use either dlp or sdk to publish and install

tutorials/model_management/new_model_torchvision_example/chapter.md, after:

# Creating a Model Adapter for TorchVision's Faster R-CNN in Dataloop  
  
## Introduction  
  
In this tutorial, we'll walk you through the process of creating a model adapter for TorchVision's Faster R-CNN to make it compatible with the Dataloop platform.  
A model adapter allows you to integrate pre-trained models into the Dataloop ecosystem, making it easier to deploy and manage your AI models.  
This tutorial is based on torchvision example [here](https://pytorch.org/vision/stable/models.html#object-detection).  
  
## Prerequisites  
  
Before you begin, make sure you have the following prerequisites in place:  
  
* Dataloop Account: You need an active Dataloop account to use the platform.  
* Python: Install Python on your local machine.  
* Dataloop SDK: Install the Dataloop SDK, which allows you to interact with Dataloop's API.  
* TorchVision: Make sure you have TorchVision installed for working with Faster R-CNN models.  
  
```shell  
pip install torchvision  
```  
  
If you have any issues, click to get more information about [Dataloop python env](https://developers.dataloop.ai/tutorials/getting_started/sdk_overview/chapter/#installing-prerequisite-software) and about [torch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/).  
  
## Running Locally  
  
To start, you can run your Faster R-CNN model locally to ensure it's functioning as expected:  
  
* Set Up Dependencies: Install the required dependencies and libraries.  
* create `main.py` file and copy the following code (make sure to replace the image path to a local one, you  
  download [this file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dataloop-ai/dtlpy-documentation/142cea1f9e913b810d5f5425c8404cc105eb0e8b/assets/images/hamster.jpg)):  

```python
from torchvision.io.image import read_image
from torchvision.models.detection import fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2, FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights
from torchvision.utils import draw_bounding_boxes
from torchvision.transforms.functional import to_pil_image
img = read_image("/user/tst/image.jpg")
# Step 1: Initialize model with the best available weights
weights = FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights.DEFAULT
model = fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2(weights=weights, box_score_thresh=0.9)
model.eval()
# Step 2: Initialize the inference transforms
preprocess = weights.transforms()
# Step 3: Apply inference preprocessing transforms
batch = [preprocess(img)]
# Step 4: Use the model and visualize the prediction
prediction = model(batch)[0]
labels = [weights.meta["categories"][i] for i in prediction["labels"]]
box = draw_bounding_boxes(img, boxes=prediction["boxes"],
                          labels=labels,
                          colors="red",
                          width=4, font_size=30)
im = to_pil_image(box.detach())
im.show()
```
  
* Run the file. You should see the annotated image with the BB output of the model.  
  
## Creating the Adapter  
  
Now we will split it to our model adapter functions.  
we will implement `load` adn `predict` and create the following adapter in `adapter.py`:  

```python
from torchvision.io.image import read_image
from torchvision.models.detection import fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2, FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights
import dtlpy as dl
class FasterRCNNAdapter(dl.BaseModelAdapter):
    def load(self, local_path, **kwargs):
        # Step 1: Initialize model with the best available weights
        weights = FasterRCNN_ResNet50_FPN_V2_Weights.DEFAULT
        self.model = fasterrcnn_resnet50_fpn_v2(weights=weights, box_score_thresh=0.9)
        self.model.eval()
        # Step 2: Initialize the inference transforms
        self.preprocess = weights.transforms()
    def prepare_item_func(self, item: dl.Item):
        # Step 3: Apply inference preprocessing transforms
        img = read_image(item.download())
        return self.preprocess(img)
    def predict(self, batch, **kwargs):
        # Step 4: Use the model and visualize the prediction
        predictions = self.model(batch)
        batch_annotations = list()
        for pred in predictions:
            collection = dl.AnnotationCollection()
            for box, label, score in zip(pred["boxes"], pred["labels"], pred["scores"]):
                collection.add(annotation_definition=dl.Box(left=box[0],
                                                            top=box[1],
                                                            right=box[2],
                                                            bottom=box[3],
                                                            label=self.model_entity.id_to_label_map[label]),
                               model_info={'name': self.model_entity.name,
                                           'model_id': self.model_entity.id,
                                           'confidence': score})
            batch_annotations.append(collection)
        return batch_annotations
```
  
## Pushing to Dataloop  
  
To integrate your model adapter into Dataloop:  
  
1. Login to Dataloop: Use the sdk to log in to the platform - `dl.login()`.  
2. Initialize Adapter Project: Create a new project or use an existing one -- we will call it 'Test Project' here.  
3. Create the `dataloop.json` manifest that specifies the app that will run the module. More information on apps and their manifests can be found [here](https://developers.dataloop.ai/tutorials/applications/introduction/chapter/). Here follows an example of manifest used for FasterRCNN:  
  
```json  
{  
  "name": "fasterrcnn",  
  "displayName": "FasterRCNN",  
  "version": "0.1.13",  
  "scope": "public",  
  "description": "FasterRCNN application for object detection",  
  "attributes": {  
    "Provider": "PyTorch",  
    "License": "BSD-3.0",  
    "Category": "Model",  
    "Computer Vision": "Semantic Segmentation",  
    "Media Type": "Image"  
  },  
  "codebase": {  
    "type": "git",  
    "gitUrl": "https://github.com/dataloop-ai-apps/fasterrcnn-adapter",  
    "gitTag": "0.1.13"  
  },  
  "components": {  
    "computeConfigs": [  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn-deploy",  
        "versions": {  
          "dtlpy": "1.89.11"  
        },  
        "runtime": {  
          "podType": "regular-xs",  
          "concurrency": 1,  
          "autoscaler": {  
            "type": "rabbitmq",  
            "minReplicas": 0,  
            "maxReplicas": 2,  
            "queueLength": 100  
          },  
          "preemptible": false  
        }  
      },  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn-train-evaluate",  
        "versions": {  
          "dtlpy": "1.89.11"  
        },  
        "runtime": {  
          "podType": "gpu-t4",  
          "concurrency": 1,  
          "autoscaler": {  
            "type": "rabbitmq",  
            "minReplicas": 0,  
            "maxReplicas": 2,  
            "queueLength": 100  
          },  
          "preemptible": false,  
          "executionTimeout": 36000000  
        }  
      }  
    ],  
    "modules": [  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn-module",  
        "entryPoint": "model_adapter.py",  
        "className": "FasterRCNNAdapter",  
        "computeConfig": "fasterrcnn-deploy",  
        "description": "FasterRCNN Segmentation Module",  
        "initInputs": [  
          {  
            "type": "Model",  
            "name": "model_entity"  
          }  
        ],  
        "functions": [  
          {  
            "name": "evaluate_model",  
            "computeConfig": "fasterrcnn-train-evaluate",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              },  
              {  
                "type": "Dataset",  
                "name": "dataset",  
                "description": "Dataloop Dataset Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              },  
              {  
                "type": "Dataset",  
                "name": "dataset",  
                "description": "Dataloop Dataset Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "displayName": "Evaluate a Model",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to evaluate FasterRCNN Segmentation model performance"  
          },  
          {  
            "name": "predict_items",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Item[]",  
                "name": "items",  
                "description": "List of items to run inference on"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [  
               {  
                 "type": "Item[]",  
                 "name": "items",  
                 "description": "The same input images for prediction."  
               },  
               {  
                 "type": "Annotation[]",  
                 "name": "annotations",  
                 "description": "The predicted annotations."  
               }  
            ],  
            "displayName": "Predict Items",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to run FasterRCNN Segmentation inference on items"  
          },  
          {  
            "name": "predict_dataset",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Dataset",  
                "name": "dataset",  
                "description": ""  
              },  
              {  
                "type": "Json",  
                "name": "filters",  
                "description": "Dataloop Filter DQL"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [],  
            "displayName": "Predict Dataset",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to run FasterRCNN inference on a dataset"  
          },  
          {  
            "name": "train_model",  
            "computeConfig": "fasterrcnn-train-evaluate",  
            "input": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "output": [  
              {  
                "type": "Model",  
                "name": "model",  
                "description": "Dataloop Model Entity"  
              }  
            ],  
            "displayName": "Train a Model",  
            "displayIcon": "",  
            "description": "Function to train FasterRCNN Segmentation model"  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ],  
    "models": [  
      {  
        "name": "fasterrcnn",  
        "moduleName": "fasterrcnn-module",  
        "scope": "project",  
        "status": "pre-trained",  
        "configuration": {  
          "weights_filename": "weights/best.pth",  
          "batch_size": 12,  
          "num_epochs": 25,  
          "id_to_label_map": {  
                "0": "person",  
                "1": "..."  
            }  
        },  
        "inputType": "image",  
        "outputType": "box",  
        "supportedMethods": {  
          "load": true,  
          "predict": true,  
          "train": true,  
          "evaluate": true  
        },  
        "description": "State-of-the-art object detection networks depend on region proposal algorithms to hypothesize object locations. ",  
        "labels": [  
          "person",  
          "..."  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  }  
}  
```  
the labels have been cut short to save space, but the full manifest includes 80 labels.  
  
4. To publish and install the model you can either:  
  
4.1. Use the command line tool to install the app, running it from the model project directory:  
  
```bash  
dlp app publish --project-name "Test Project"  
```  
  
and then find the published app in the Models Marketplace and click Install:  
  
![Marketplace Model Installation](../../../assets/images/model_management/market_place_install.png)  
  
4.2. Install from the SDK, running the following lines with python from the directory where the manifest is located:  
  

```python
project = dl.projects.get("Test Project")
# Publish the dpk
fasterrcnn_dpk = project.dpks.publish()
# Install the app:
project.apps.install(fasterrcnn_dpk)
```
  
## Deploy the model  
  
Finally, deploy and run your adapted Faster R-CNN model on the Dataloop platform:  
  

```python
project = dl.projects.get("Test Project")
model = project.models.get("fasterrcnn")  # From the manifest's models.name
model.deploy()
```
Inference on Dataloop: Use the Dataloop platform to perform inference on your Faster R-CNN model and monitor its performance.  

```python
ex = model.predict(item_ids=['...'])
```
  
## Conclusion  
  
With this tutorial, you'll be able to create a model adapter for TorchVision's Faster R-CNN and seamlessly integrate it into the Dataloop platform. Note that specific code implementation details are not included in this outline, but you can provide code snippets or refer to official documentation as needed.
