onboarding/10. Next_steps.md, before:

## What is next? 

We hope that this onboarding guide introduced you to all the main features of Dataloop and provided you an overall picture of what value our platform can bring to your development cycle.  

We are welcoming you to continue your journey with Dataloop, by using the following links: 

1. [Main Dataloop Github](https://github.com/dataloop-ai)
2. [SDK in-depth documentation](https://sdk-docs.dataloop.ai/en/latest/tutorials.html#faas-tutorial)
3. [UI documentation](https://dataloop.ai/docs/welcome)
4. [Release notes](https://dataloop.ai/docs/sdk-release-notes)

We also highly recommend that you go through our Advanced Onboarding Exercise, which is actually a Bonus to completing this Onboarding - and the Chapter 11 of the Onboarding.

If you have any questions or concerns, feel free to reach out to our Support team by opening a question through the support widget located in the right corner of the platform. Our team is available to assist you with any inquiries you may have and we are happy to help!

Commit message:

10 reviewed and edit
100% ready to merge.

Please make a note to update all links that point to your repo after we merge into Or's.

onboarding/10. Next_steps.md, after:

## What is next? 

We hope that this onboarding guide introduced you to all the main features of Dataloop, and more specifically, the Dataloop Python SDK.  Our aim was to provide you an overall picture of what value our platform can bring to your AI data development and production flows.  

We highly recommend that you go through our [Advanced Onboarding Exercise](https://github.com/StefanSilver/dtlpy-documentation/blob/main/onboarding/11.%20Onboarding_Exercise.md).  Taking this additional step will make real all of the concepts you learned during this Onboarding with some fun and different Datasets.

We welcome you to continue your journey with Dataloop by using the following links: 

1. [Dataloop Python SDK Release Notes](https://dataloop.ai/docs/sdk-release-notes)
2. [Dataloop Platform UI Documentation](https://dataloop.ai/docs/welcome)
3. [Structured, Public, and Fully Verified to Work Dataloop GitHub Developer Community Space](https://github.com/dataloop-ai-apps)
4. [Unstructured, Public Dataloop GitHub Space](https://github.com/dataloop-ai)

If you have any questions, we encourage you to submit your question to the [Dataloop Developer Community](https://github.com/dataloop-ai-apps/dataloop-devs/discussions/new?category=q-a). One of our crack Developer Success Engineers or someone from the community will help as quickly as they can.

You can submit issues to our Support team by opening a question through the support widget located in the upper right corner of the platform UI. Our team is available to assist you with any inquiries you may have and we are happy to help!
